# Module 22 Challenge: Home Sales

**Student name:** Tania Barrera

---

This repo contains my work for the challenge that corresponds to Module 22 of the UofT SCS edX Data Bootcamp.

---

## Deliverable

Notebook: [Home_Sales.ipynb](Home_Sales.ipynb)


## Instructions

1. Rename the `Home_Sales_starter_code.ipynb` file as `Home_Sales.ipynb`.

2. Import the necessary PySpark SQL functions for this assignment.

3. Read the `home_sales_revised.csv` data in the starter code into a Spark DataFrame.

4. Create a temporary table called `home_sales`.

5. Answer the following questions using SparkSQL:

    - What is the average price for a four-bedroom house sold for each year? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

    - What is the average price of a home for each year it was built that has three bedrooms and three bathrooms? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

    - What is the average price of a home for each year that has three bedrooms, three bathrooms, two floors, and is greater than or equal to 2,000 square feet? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

    - What is the "view" rating for homes costing more than or equal to $350,000? Determine the run time for this query, and round off your answer to two decimal places.

6. Cache your temporary table `home_sales`.

7. Check if your temporary table is cached.

8. Using the cached data, run the query that filters out the view ratings with an average price of greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.

9. Partition by the "date_built" field on the formatted parquet home sales data.

10. Create a temporary table for the parquet data.

11. Run the query that filters out the view ratings with an average price of greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.

12. Uncache the `home_sales` temporary table.

13. Verify that the `home_sales` temporary table is uncached using PySpark.

14. Download your `Home_Sales.ipynb` file and upload it into your "Home_Sales" GitHub repository.


## Requirements

1. A Spark DataFrame is created from the dataset. (5 points)

2. A temporary table of the original DataFrame is created. (10 points)

3. A query is written that returns the average price, rounded to two decimal places, for a four-bedroom house that was sold in each year. (5 points)

4. A query is written that returns the average price, rounded to two decimal places, of a home that has three bedrooms and three bathrooms. (5 points)

5. A query is written that returns the average price of a home with three bedrooms, three bathrooms, two floors, and is greater than or equal to 2,000 square feet for each year built rounded to two decimal places. (5 points)

6.  A query is written that returns the view rating for the average price for homes that are greater than or equal to $350,000, rounded to two decimal places. (The output shows the run time for this query.) (10 points)

7.  A cache of the temporary "home_sales" table is created and validated. (10 points)

8.  The query from step 6 is run on the cached temporary table, and the run time is computed. (10 points)

9.  A partition of the home sales dataset by the "date_built" field is created, and the formatted parquet data is read. (10 points)

10. A temporary table of the parquet data is created. (10 points)

11. The query from step 6 is run on the parquet temporary table, and the run time is computed. (10 points)

12. The "home_sales" temporary table is uncached and verified. (10 points)

---

## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

Challenge instructions and starter files, as well as some code sections that were adapted from the UofT SCS EdX Data Bootcamp class activities:

© 2022 edX Boot Camps LLC. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
